Today's Agenda
--------------
React JS Introduction
==============
What is a React JS?

React JS -React is an open-source component-based front-end JavaScript library. 

Purpose of React:-
1. It is used to create fast and interactive user interfaces(UI) for web and mobile applications.

	React JS / React = Web App
	React  Native = Mobile App

2. It is easy to create a dynamic application in React because it requires less coding and offer more functionality.
 
3. By using React, We can create Single Page Applications(SPA).

Why React:-
Today, many JavaScript frameworks are available in the market(like angular, node), but still, React came into the market and gained popularity amongst them. 

The previous frameworks follow the traditional data flow structure, which uses the DOM (Document Object Model).

DOM is an object which is created by the browser each time a web page is loaded.
 
It dynamically adds or removes the data at the back end and when any modifications were done, then each time a new DOM is created for the same page.

This repeated creation of DOM makes unnecessary memory wastage and reduces the performance of the application.

Therefore, a new technology ReactJS framework invented which remove this drawback. ReactJS allows you to divide your entire application into various components. 

ReactJS still used the same traditional data flow, but it is not directly operating on the browser's Document Object Model (DOM) immediately; instead, it operates on a Virtual DOM. 

It means rather than manipulating the document in a browser after changes to our data, it resolves changes on a DOM built and run entirely in memory. After the virtual DOM has been updated.

React determines what changes made to the actual browser's DOM. The React Virtual DOM exists entirely in memory and is a representation of the web browser's DOM. Due to this, when we write a React component, we did not write directly to the DOM; instead, we are writing virtual components that react will turn into /the DOM.

There are couple of front end languages
1. Angular
2. React JS
3. View JS
4. Express JS
5. Node JS

With these languages, we can create Single Page Applications.

Advantages :-  

1. Performance will be improved. 
2. Virtual DOM provided, with this page content will be loaded very fastly. 


What is Virtual DOM?
	React JS Virtual DOM is an in-memory representation of the DOM. DOM refers to the Document Object Model that represents the content of HTML documents as a tree structure so that the programs can be read, accessed and changed in the document structure, style, and content.
--------------------------------------------
How to Install  React JS:- 

1.  Install NPM(Node Package Manager), it will come with NodeJS Software.
	so that first we have to install Nodejs
		Open nodejs.org  site then download software then install it. 

Note :- Once  Installation is done, check the versions by using following commands At command prompts
		node -v (to check node js version)
		npm -v (to check npm version)

What is a NPM?
		It is a Node Package Manager, which is world largest library for differnt front end web scripts. 
			it has over 8 Lakkhs librarys. 
				It provides library for all the front end langauges as well as it gives set of 
				commands to work with that particular languages. 

2. Now install react js by following command. 
	npm install -g create-react-app

note :-  To check the version		
		npm view react version
----------------------------------------
How to create  React Application, Use following command to create app
		
		create-react-app <app name>

	Note :-  app name must be in small case letters

		Ex:-   create-react-app  myfirstreactapp

To Run the application 
		npm start
--------------------------------------------
